I think mentors are way overrated they
don't scale
it's an unequal relationship and it's an
easy way to let yourself off the hook I
wish I had a mentor heroes aren't
enormous ly large supply you can say
what would Bill Gates do what would Elon
must do what would Jacqueline Novogratz
do and you can study their work enough
that even from afar without them knowing
you exist because they're your hero you
can start to model it everybody welcome
to impact dude you know my friends
because you believe that human potential
is nearly limitless but you know that
having potential is not the same as
actually doing something with it so our
goal with this show and company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
one of the most prolific authors of our
time he's written 18 international
bestsellers including linchpin tribes
the dip and purple cow which had been
translated into more than 35 languages
and when he was a book packager he wrote
a book per month every month for ten
years he's also written more than 7,100
blog post which he publishes at a rate
of one per day every day and less do you
think these are cheap throwaway posts
that no one reads his blog is one of the
most popular blogs on the planet in fact
it's so popular that if you want to find
it you need only type for single letters
into Google se th that's madness there
are companies that spend hundreds of
millions of dollars in advertising and
marketing that don't have that kind of
visibility in addition to his writing
he's been an entrepreneur since the age
of 14 creating numerous companies
including Squidoo and Yoyodyne which he
sold to Yahoo for 30 million dollars
he is a true iconoclast who over the
course of a staggeringly varied career
has helped invent children's educational
games commercial email and he is
routinely disrupted the publishing
industry with radically divergent
tactics such as free books ebooks books
with wordless covers and books that ship
in milk cartons his book spreading the
idea virus was the most successful ebook
of all time and when he launched a
series of four books on Kickstarter he
reached his goal in just three hours
becoming the most successful book
project ever launched
way he's also revolutionizing the
education system by creating some of the
top performing online classes on
platforms such as udemy and Skillshare
as well as running his own successful
online course called alt MBA which seeks
to provide the best post Industrial
Revolution era education possible so
please help me in welcoming one of the
most sought after speakers in the world
the creator of the brand new podcast
akimbo the man who has been called the
ultimate entrepreneur for the
Information Age Seth Godin doesn't sound
like anyone I know the frustrating thing
about writing your intro was I kept
having to leave things off it is really
incredible what you've managed to
accomplish in your life and what I found
fascinating cuz I know you as an author
have read a lot of your books which
really and truly by the way if
influenced me as an entrepreneur and I
didn't know as much about your
entrepreneurial journey so diving into
that and seeing how many risks you took
there how many successful and
unsuccessful things you attempted was
staggering and then I think the favorite
thing I came across in researching use
this concept where you told people to
fly closer to the Sun and I promise
nothing bad will happen to you what do
you mean by that
well I'm not sure I want to promise
anything but I don't let any back
guarantees here the story of Icarus is
fascinating to look at from a cultural
perspective it's been around for
thousands of years we all know it
Daedalus and Icarus go to a desert
island
Daedalus the dad makes wings out of
feathers gives them to his son put some
on with wax says to his son obey your
father were flying out of here don't fly
too high because if you fly too high the
wax will melt and you'll die and we all
know what happened Icarus got uppity he
had you bris he disobeyed his father and
he died except that's not what the myth
said in 1700 or 1500 or 1200 they
changed it it used to say but more
important don't fly too low because if
you fly too low the water and the mist
will weigh down your wings and you will
surely perish
they took that part out why do you think
they took that out they took it out
because the people in power the
industrialists want us to fly lower
because it's easier to ignore us it's
easier to keep us in line it's easier to
get a factory job that way people who
have the you Burris to dream of
something bigger change the status quo
and the people who are in charge aren't
in favor of that and I'm not a
conspiracy theorist at all but I do know
where I where public school came from
and public school was invented by
factory owners who didn't have enough
compliant factory workers and it worked
great for a hundred years we had this
wonderful system do what you're told go
to the placement office you'll get a job
for 50 years you will like the job but
you'll be able to go home and watch TV
buy enough stuff you only distort JUnit
and then you'll die and the deal was
straightforward and kept on both sides
and during our lifetime in the last 20
years deal's off and the mistake the
problem is that people are still seduced
into thinking that what they're supposed
to do is fit in more and social media
has made it worse because there's this
whole pack mentality of how do I fit in
more with small bursts of here's one
quick tip for a flat stomach in three
different ways to get rich and you can
learn to flip houses today and be a
millionaire tomorrow
none of which work right but the
combination of those two mean that
people are starting to feel broken and
bitter because the promise isn't being
kept so what does it look like then -
and you said something which I thought
was pretty racy in the best way possible
which is that in the 1600s the
unemployment rate was zero because there
were no jobs had been ever so we're
going you said that we're going back to
that hey what does that look like and
how do people fly closer to the Sun in
that scenario so let's think about a job
where you have to train 12 years to be
good at it radiology you and I could
never read an x-ray and figure out if
someone's got a broken leg or not well a
few years ago they figured out that
x-rays are digital so you don't need the
person to read them here scan them send
them someplace overseas where someone's
cheaper they don't have to do that
anymore because our computer can do it
and a computer can do it better than an
average radiologist so what jobs are
left for radiologists the job of being
so expert at something and doing
something so beyond competence that a
computer isn't going to be able to learn
how to do it then all we've got left are
jobs where you're doing something
someone can't tell you what to do
because if someone can tell you how to
do your job we can find someone cheaper
than you to do it do you have a process
so that's so powerful i when i read
linchpin it changed me and it changed me
in at a point in my life where i'd a lot
of employees and i struggled with this
notion of okay i wanted to be an
entrepreneur so i started doing that and
i would make a terrible employee and so
but how do i have 1400 employees and
preach like everyone should be an
entrepreneur i'm like the math doesn't
add up it literally would make my own
comforter or math doesn't add up
quest was this huge home run and you
owned a factory you may not have had a
building with steam coming at the top
but it was a factory you needed people
to do factory jobs and those people
probably had a good job but the point is
that going forward most organizations
are gonna get smaller and smaller per
dollar in sales because you don't need
as many people and if you think about
how many people worked at sears roebuck
versus how many people work at amazon
now if you think about how many people
it takes at Tesla to make a car compared
to how many Henry Ford needed to make a
car we're all going in the same
direction so you have a choice and the
choice is one of three things either
you're the replaceable cog in the
pyramid who's going to get paid as
little as possible or you're the founder
of the owner the person who runs the
thing but for most of us the best choice
is to be the linchpin one we can't live
without the person who figures out what
to do next and I'm betting that of the
1,400 people who work for you you had 50
linchpins and those people made the
place work the other thousand you could
have replaced down a weeks notice but
those 50 people what they knew how they
cared how they work through the world
there would have been no company without
them do you think at all how how do we
get people inspired to become
linchpin okay so now we're getting I
think to the core of what you're trying
to build here and what's open to so many
of us mandatory education makes no sense
nobody ever learned anything against
their will sooner or later it becomes
voluntary you need enrollment not
enrollment from the legal sense of
you're not truant
but enrollment in the sense that you are
leaning into it and want to learn it so
if we want to teach someone to be a
baseball fan here's what we don't do we
don't say here's the baseball textbook
there'll be a test tomorrow and if you
do well you can take another test and if
you do ten tests in a row really well
we'll take you to a game that's not what
happens but yet kids memorize all these
statistics and they know all this stuff
because they wanted to know it so we
must begin by gaining enrollment and
there are a couple ways to do it one way
is to promise a quick win all right
just read these six paragraphs and you
will lose thirty pounds and it's easy to
get the masses to pay a dollar for that
but doesn't work to data and the other
way to do it is to say to people being a
Navy SEAL or being physically fit or
being smart at business these are
endeavors they take effort if you're
ready to pay the price to get the
benefit there are people who will teach
you so it's the opposite of the question
will this be on the test
if you're asking will this be on the
test from an online course or from a
school what you're basically saying to
the teacher is without a certificate I
don't even to be here I'm only here to
prove that I was here and in this post
educational institution world that we're
entering certificates are worth less and
less what's actually where something is
did you sign up to learn something where
you opened yourself up to possible
failure opened yourself up to the stress
of becoming someone else in a way that
made you better and not everyone wants
to do that but my mission is to work
with the people who do so that I can
help them open those doors and how so
the concept of to make sure I pronounce
this right it's all tome or Tali I guess
I'm not familiar with this
I've only heard you say it so I think
you have to I think have to rolled photo
metallic that's much better
Vega so how do we get how do we knowing
that that's staring into the void and
that a moment of like this could fail
and am I really gonna jump and die
forward how do we train people through
that and God maybe that's the wrong
question but like so I grew up in the
standard education system so I try to
cram everything into process which by
the way as as a leader would make it so
much easier if I could just like push
the cattle through the chute and that
they would come out the other side
awoken and excited and excitable but it
may not work like that but how close can
we get to making people thirsty for that
moment
so salt amor Tali refers to an important
work of art by Yves Klein from the early
1960s he went to a small suburb outside
of Paris and did basically the first
Photoshop to picture and he's standing
there like this falling out of a
building and he's literally falling and
they did it with a double exposure
there's mattresses under him that they
were then removed so he didn't die or
anything but you feel in the pit of your
stomach that sort of Six Flags feeling
the question is where do we go in our
life for those six flags feelings and
what they discovered in the social media
world is knowing that there are people
talking about you behind your back
it's a good way to simulate that oh I
wonder what they're saying I'm gonna go
check my status and check but it's not
productive so the question is where can
it be productive let's say you're a
server and a restaurant
well if your job is only to bring the
food from the kitchen to the front table
we've already figured out how to replace
that right it's the buffet or the
fast-food restaurant your job is to make
people feel welcome and to connect with
them so there's just space between you
and them and the question is will you
risk entering the space putting yourself
forward even though in that moment the
person might say you totally misjudged
what was happening here I don't want
your smile and I don't want your
connection but when you do it
well not only is it addictive it creates
enormous amounts of possibility and so
that leap into the void doesn't mean
mortgage your house and put everything
you've got on one business project it
means are you hooked on that feeling of
this might not work and this might work
we'll find out one of the most beautiful
things I've ever heard you talk about
and I always try to give people examples
of you know look if you want to play in
a world stage I'm the guy to follow like
I will paint that picture for how you
get there but it doesn't have to be
entrepreneurially it doesn't have to be
that you want to be an athlete you could
want to be a great parent
but I've never had the words to explain
what that would look like and you do and
you've used this incredible story of the
woman I think she was at 7-eleven
who sells like more coffee than any
other 7-eleven in the country or
something
what's the whole concept about like
bringing this down to something that's
really tangible for people other than
the one that you just gave where people
can really see how this plays out in
their life so the system wants you to
feel mostly powerless because they have
power you don't and it also wants you to
feel inadequate until you buy more stuff
because that's what marketers sell us is
the idea that until you buy this you're
incomplete it turns out those two things
don't make people happy what makes us
happy is agency knowing that we have
some sort of control over what's going
to happen in our life and unfortunately
the economic structure that we live in
isn't going to be easy for most people
to fix not in the short run but what we
can fix
right now is how we respond or react to
what's happening in front of us and my
friend Kat Hoch says you can't be
curious and angry at the same time
that's interesting so you got a choice
you got a choice in the traffic jam you
get a choice when you're dealing with an
angry clerk you get a choice with a
bureaucrat am I going to be curious
about how this person got to this moment
am I going to be angry at this situation
and what we find is that as a parent as
a clerk at 7-eleven as a third grade
teacher we could did
deep into emotional labor not the
physical labor of digging latrine but
the emotional labor of sitting when we
feel like running of whispering when we
feel like yelling we could dig deep and
say in this moment I'm gonna choose to
be the best version of myself and seek
possibility and it turns out that that's
a life that you can build an entire life
merely doing that and then what happens
more often than not is the world
responds by inviting you to play on a
bigger stage so this is not about
hustling I'm not a fan of Sling I'm a
fan of a generous hustle and the
generous hustle says how can I do things
in the world to leave a better trail and
to help other people not how do I do
things so I get my fair share because
the world doesn't respond well to
hustlers they don't like being hustled
but the world responds really well the
people who take responsibility and give
away credit and that boundary there is
totally different and if you work in an
organization they can't respect that
there's another one that wants you it's
the way you've crafted your life is
utterly fascinating to me and when you
talk about not being a fan of hustling
and talk about generosity and things so
we've obviously been trying to get you
on the show forever and I remember the
first time Christopher who books the
show because people always they dance
right and it's like oh well maybe not
now whatever and he goes oh no Seth
goden was a hard no I had to laugh
because I though it was so clear and he
said look he has these guidelines about
traveling and all that stuff well that's
really interesting and then as I dug
into your and it was interesting to me
because I was so on the climb of trying
to build a community build a following
which you'd obviously already done very
successful well and you're hitting home
runs every day overly kind from you but
thank you and it was so interesting to
me than to see your entrepreneurial
career and realize oh he could have kept
going like you after the success of
Yoyodyne I know you there were other
huge offers equity offers that were made
to you and you turned them down one why
and how is that for you the version of
flying closer to the Sun versus the safe
path
right so I don't talked about this much
after in 91 I helped invent commercial
email so if you've ever gotten an email
from any company that you wanted to get
not spit because I was loud and proud
against spam from an early age I got
kicked out of the Direct Marketing
Association for my behavior but
permission marking that that was my
invention years before I wrote the book
and we built a company that was getting
more email every day than any company in
the world with only you know 75
employees so that was a fascinating ride
and it was energizing and I sold it to
Yahoo right at the peak of the bubble
and then I got a call from Bill Gross
who's a great entrepreneur and he said
Idealab needs a vice president of
marketing we're gonna go public in six
months would you like a billion dollars
in stock options to take the job and I
looked at my little kids and I looked at
my life and I said I know how to do that
but what would change for the better if
I did and so I turned it down and once
you turn down a billion dollars in stock
up since it becomes really easy to
prioritize the rest of your life because
you say yourself well don't do it for
money because you didn't do that for
money and so the model has been I see
myself as a teacher that's really
incredible and I think everybody judges
their life by metrics even if not by
standard metrics what are the metrics by
which you judge the success of your life
judge what you do next
that kind of thing well so you know I'm
fortunate because I've shown up a lot
longer than most people thought I would
show up that there's a lot of people who
trust me and my goal is to build that
trust not to trade in on the trust and
that means putting things into the world
that match the promise that I've made
and the promise I've made is this might
surprise you this might not work there
are no shortcuts but you might be able
to see a different way through that puts
a lot of pressure on me to not do the
safe thing so you know we will go you're
down one of the first privacy policies
ever on the Internet
we won't rent or sell your email address
now you see those everywhere I don't
need that policy anymore because the
people who trust me know that I would
never do that and that's the goal is how
can you engage with people so that you
don't even need a lawyer so you don't
even need the fine print because you can
live a life with no fine print yeah
that's really interesting very hard to
do and when I look at you referring to
yourself as a teacher coming out of
being an entrepreneur building things
realizing that this is somebody who's
doing this purely out of choice it's
really fascinating especially in our
culture today where the entrepreneurs
become the new Rockstar buildings like
unless you're building something like
you're just not living up to your
potential
it takes a real level of self-discipline
not to get caught up and cultural
pressure or yeah what other people think
about you the just lizard brain and
Migdal a desire to fit in and so it's
really tempting to look at you and in
fact if I'm honest I did look at you as
somebody that just sort of naturally had
an easier time with that than others but
then in researching you realizing that
you really grew to understand self
narrative self talk that you actually
struggled with negative self-talk
walk us through that what's your
relationship with cognitive behavioral
therapy like how did you unwind the
self-talk to be able to make such clear
decisions for yourself well as you
mentioned earlier I've been a small time
entrepreneur since I was 14 and never
did it for the money I did it because it
was interesting because I saw a problem
and I wanted to help change it I saw a
project I wanted to see if it would work
and it was a fun ride through college I
went to business school briefly and then
I had my one and only real job at a
software company which was a great one
because I was making mistakes in
somebody else's dime but I left there in
84 and proceeded to just fail and fail
and fail I sold my first book the first
day to warner books for $5,000 chip
Conley and I wrote it together and when
we were 24 and then I got of did 86 26
years old and then I got 800 rejection
letters in a row I got rejected by every
well-known publisher again and again and
again because all you needed to
sent out a book proposal with stamps he
had to go down to the local laser
printing place I couldn't afford a laser
printer and you'd print out the
proposals and you just mail him and if
they liked it they send you money but
they didn't like it and then he didn't
like it and they didn't like and they
just kept not liking it and I was doing
projects that were sort of like in those
days you couldn't find a recipe for
fortune cookies wasn't in a Chinese
cookbook wasn't an enjoyer cooking how
do you make fortune cookies so I was
gonna do a cookbook with a recipe for
fortune cookies but what are the other
200 pages the other 200 pages were
little tiny perforated fortunes some
bike like Henny Youngman and others that
we were just gonna make up so the
fortune cookie Construction Set what a
great idea and I like it and they're big
bucks little books no one liked the
books and so the question is how do you
hustle harder how do you get in front of
more people how do you and I I was
bringing in spreadsheets and I was
wearing a suit and I realized that it
was the frustration was turning into
anger and I was almost daring people to
reject it so my number could get even
higher than 800 right once I could relax
into the idea that maybe I could do
something for other people things
started to go a little bit better and
one project led to another so there 120
bucks I didn't write them I put together
teams I wrote parts of them really
complicated almanacs 600 page books that
were basically the internet for the
internet but then the speed bump would
come right because you spend a million
dollars a half million dollars to make a
book and then it didn't come through or
whatever and when they did that whole
talk would come back and I'd be afraid
to answer the telephone and it's all
caving in again and that was the first
time I discovered CBT which for those
who haven't explored it is the single
most proven form of therapy you don't
have to go over any many times three
four times it's a series of techniques
we had a family friend whose kid at the
age of four had significant OCD he was
washing his hands for hours every day
which if you have a foil there's a very
scary thing to watch just
after three sessions he never did it
again and the trick because it's a trick
is oh your brain has a loop going on
when that loop gets started is when it's
at its weakest how do you train the kid
that when that happens there's a little
interactive intervention Oh put a gold
coin over here instead of over here
that's a signal it starts this other
thing a prize occurs you've completely
forgotten that you want to wash your
hands things like that so for me there
were certain triggers and it's like oh
when I feel that trigger instead of
launching this and launching this and
launching this why don't I do that
instead and about the same time I had
this horrible crackling in my ears and I
went to the ear nose and throat Hospital
in New York and I explained it to them
and they listened say yeah you have a
horrible crackling in your ears it
really bothers me and they gave me some
serious sudafed and I slept for a week
because it's very sensitive that advice
I can't take this anymore and the
crackling came back and they said well
what makes the crackling start I go when
I call like this and they said don't do
that so I stopped because the crackling
was bothering me I can I just made the
crackling come back right now but I just
stopped making that move and the
crackling went away well the same thing
is true with so many of the stories we
tell ourselves about business about
sales about relationships about
customers about employees here we go
again
well the minute you start saying here we
go again you have a moment when you
could say well what if I said something
else right now what if every time I felt
that way instead of pushing someone away
I gave them a hug right that you
reprogram that cycle and it doesn't work
every time people have very serious
issues that I'm not minimizing at all
I'm just saying for me it made a huge
shift in how I decided to be present in
the moment and not run away from the
lizard
not run away from those things that
scared me but dance with them instead I
love that you brought that up that
notion of dancing with the fear or
something you've talked really
eloquently about what is that what's
that process look like and how does it
end up serving somebody who wants to
become an artist in the way that you
mean it
pen the artistry of the person who walks
up to your table and greets you with a
smile and does things that can't be
outsourced you know there's a really
good reason to be afraid and if you look
at a lizard or a wolf or a fox they
spend most of their time afraid that's
why they're alive that what makes a wild
animal a wild animal is that they're
good at having grandchildren staying
alive in the wild that involves a little
bit of you know reproduction and sort of
almost an anger thing but mostly it's
fear get out of trouble right now
well we evolved from that and it worked
when we were cavemen or in the jungle
because if you hear a twig snap and you
don't run away that's it it's over if
you're in the circle in the village
around the campfire and you offend the
chief and they banish you from the tribe
you're gonna die and so there's a lot of
things that evolved for a really good
reason about how we behave and now
they're all wrong that the thing that
you are trying to avoid with saber-tooth
Tigers or the campfire the opposite is
true if you want to do public speaking
make a presentation through sales invent
something new write all of the where did
writer's block come from write writer's
block is a glitch that we think we're in
the jungle when we're actually in front
of our keyboard so when it shows up we
can't deny it's there the harder we make
it go away the more powerful it becomes
because it's at our brainstem our
amygdala it's very powerful so the
alternative is to say oh welcome back
thanks for letting me know I'm onto
something and that narrative is
something that we can learn to do and we
now have such an easy time to put our
ideas into the world if we can do it
generously and we can do it with fear
not without fear but do it with fear
because over time
it's like athletics we can train
ourselves to get better at it one thing
that I love I was literally floored by
the fact that you've written more than
7100 blogpost I was freaking out I was
like how is it number real I made sure
that you hadn't misspoke so that I was
hearing it multiple times it's like
Jesus like that's scary and then you
said but the law of statistics says that
over half of them are below average I
thought wow that's really interesting
and you couple that with the 800
rejections one after the other after the
other it gets to be really interesting
and what I want to know so I get the
technique of cognitive behavioral
therapy but why did you care enough to
keep going like when you got that many
rejections why not just go for a typical
job or why one a day like exactly well
you just gave it away when you said when
you rolled your eyes when you said
typical job because I knew I knew what
the typical job was and I knew I would
be stuck in it and I would be bad at it
that I still have trouble not speaking
up when I see things that are broken
you're not paid to speak up about broken
things when your bank teller or when
you're you know a junior trainee but so
I knew that I would view that for the
rest of my life as a really significant
failure so the idea was how do I cost
reduce macaroni and cheese for dinner
window shopping at restaurants so that I
could just make it one more day
how can I cycle this so I get to keep
playing and the magic of the book
business when I was in it was you didn't
need any cash to get started the
publisher funded in the work and then
paid you a royalty so it looked like it
could work and there were people who
were making it work and I talked about
this in the dip that there's a
difference I'm totally in favor of
radicals who do something that's never
been done before but if you don't have
the resources to support that better to
do something that's been done before
better to follow down a path where
there's a path because the work is the
point the process is the point not being
other brag that you were the first one
one thing that I really think is
interesting is if you're going to be
writing the blog posts you're going to
be doing that many
know that some are gonna be below
average or your isaac asimov and your
writing until noon just everyday even
it's not good how do you turn getting
better into a process do you think that
we're born with it do you think that we
can increase our talents right so people
who talk to me about writer's block who
talk to me about being stuck I say show
me your bad writing and they never have
any show me the six novels you've
written that are terrible they don't
have them show me the 18 screenplays
they don't have them because what
they're really saying is I want to have
really good writing then I'll have some
and in my experience it begins with
really bad writing if you have enough
bad writing someone can help you make it
better if you have bad taste you can
learn to get better taste so I don't
believe that there's any genetics
associated whatsoever with what most
people call talent I think there's an
enormous amount of culture associated
with it and I think there's learning
associated with it that you get better
at this craft because you're in a
culture that rewards you for getting
better at it like here we are in LA it
surrounded by some of the greatest
sounding camera people in the industry
most of the sounding camera people in LA
are better than the sound and camera
people in Guadalajara why because
there's a cultural loop here that says
if you get a little bit better you're
gonna get more work which will get you a
little bit better which will get you
more working around and around it goes
right it's no one's born being good at
manual focus that's something that you
develop an eye for and the same things
true with writing some people get lucky
out of the gate but they compound that
look because they keep going and they
edit they develop good taste you know
I'm good at direct mail copywriting
partly because I've written 3,000 direct
mail letters and until you've written
2,000 it's not fair to say you're not
good at it that is so powerful I'd
literally didn't want to breathe because
I want to make sure that like we got
that whole thing that's so powerful and
I really hope everybody at home is
listening to that what was your process
how did you were there people that you
sought feedback from specific
like how did you go through to get
better I'm gonna put a little sidebar
here about the alt NBA because what I've
found is some people can bootstrap their
way into this and I think you're one of
those people I know I'm one of those
people and other people because of
school and lots of other things need a
support system to do it
so the Alton ba that this seminar run
I'm not in it there's no video of me
there's no video of anybody there's 75
resources but it's projects and giving
and getting feedback and what happens is
the people in it there's 125 people
there's a lot of coaches give more
feedback in 30 days than they've ever
given in their whole life and get more
feedback than they've ever gotten in
their whole life and it keeps cycling
and cycling and cycling and cycling
because you can simulate that bootstrap
situation if you're surrounded by other
people who are on the same path as you I
used to go to Barnes & Noble every
Sunday and buy every one of the five
important business books that were
published that week no only five a week
that were worth buying now it's five
every ten minutes but it's five a week
you could read them all I used to you
know listen and map and look and chart
and say well how did this work and how
did that work when I was going to be a
thriller writer I took six James Bond
novels and decoded them chapter by
chapters they're a rhythm to this
there's lots of ways you can do that
stuff but the fact you haven't done it
already might mean you need somebody to
help you and a mastermind group that you
organize yourself is a great way to do
it there's 20 great ways to do it 50
great ways but it begins by accepting
you can get better and if you think
there's a shortcut you're wrong that
breaking down the James Bond thing is so
smart did you know that that was how
Benjamin Franklin got better at writing
by reading James Bond out by reading
James Bond necessarily oh yeah but yeah
that he used to deconstruct the people
that he thought were the best and tried
to read it and then from
right what they were saying so that he
could figure out do I understand
sentence structure do I understand
paragraphs and I thought that was so
fascinating at a time where you couldn't
just go take a course on creative
writing that people still found ways to
do it that it's like the most
tried-and-true method which is
essentially to have a mentor somebody
that's walking you through this stuff
but even in the absence of that that
there are ways especially now with
social media and I young online like you
can get in contact with people even if
it's just their work so you're keying in
to one of my favorite blog post ever
which is about mentors and heroes I am
in the minority here
I think mentors are way overrated they
don't scale
it's an unequal relationship and it's an
easy way to let yourself off the hook I
wish I had a mentor heroes are an
enormous ly large supply you can say
what would Bill Gates do what would Elon
Musk do Oh Jacqueline Novogratz do and
you can study their work enough that
even from afar without them knowing you
exist because they're your hero you can
start to model it years ago when I was a
book packager I did a series of novels
for Scholastic and the idea was
twelve-year-old boys even back then
weren't reading and there was the
baby-sitters club and Sweet Valley High
but mostly for girls what for boys so I
licensed the rights to a bunch of
Nintendo games and I invented the idea
of novel izing Nintendo games how do you
get from that idea to a million books
sold and the answer was there are people
who novelized movies for a living so
that when you you know the Black Panther
movie is going to be coming out there's
gonna be a little black panther novel
I'm sure that someone's gonna write it
turns out they do him in two weeks
there's a craft to it the people who
know how to do this but you got to give
him the screenplay well I didn't have
the screenplay because it was a computer
game so I developed this process I said
well I know how to take a 12 year old
and give them a video cassette player
and have them play the game to the end
then I can take that cassette and have
somebody write out and think then I can
turn it into a Bible 20 pages long who
are the characters what do they look
like what are the where the sources of
tension which I'm just stealing from
you know six different kinds of script
development books they can hand it to
somebody who writes novels based on
movies and 2 weeks after we started we
had a novel and it wasn't a great novel
but it cost 99 cents and it was for a 12
year old and it got them to a lifetime
of reading the point of that process was
there was not one single act of genius
in the entire thing but as a packager my
job was to be that person who could
produce something from afar that all fit
together and this economy we live in
isn't an industrial one it's a
connection economy not based on who you
know but who trusts you and what you
have access to so the possibilities
right this moment not for long are
enormous for a human being who wants to
take a threat of this a threat of this a
threat of this weave them together braid
them up and say I made this and I think
that's being ignored by too many people
who are looking for a shortcut do that
that example you say there is not an act
of genius in it and and I'll take that
genius maybe is simplifying things or at
least seeing that I process can be
created I don't need it to be Einstein
and that I really want people to
understand this so at Qwest we went from
I don't know how to make a shelf stable
put like literally people would not
believe how ignorant we were to the
process we had no idea but he didn't do
it right we didn't even know that water
would make it rot right like that's how
bad we were and then had to figure out
the equipment and then now starting a
studio right it's the same thing but
what we do is we sit down and we go okay
it's a game we play called no [__]
what would it take
so no [__] what would it take to
build Disney now knowing that now I have
to compete against Disney right so at
least he didn't have to do that so you
you're you start breaking it down these
survivable failures right that's how I
look at it so I never want to bet the
farm so I need to be able to lose a lot
and so where do I go that's a natural
part of the the runway Zac where I can
fail fail fail fail fail iterate figure
it out and then go and if people could
have watched us and I've tried to give
it to them but if they could have
watched that process like entrepreneurs
and my way of defining it would be born
because they would see oh like there's
no magic it's fumble
through but it's it's getting that path
how did you guys break down the problem
with education that you're trying to
solve and then the actual way cuz I'm
shocked when you said there were no
videos I assumed all MBA was you and
videos right so how did you guys figure
out that wouldn't work and I'm really
looking for that process like what were
some of those early AHA is that you had
about problem solution okay so I won't
make up a convenient answer I'll tell
you exactly how these things work for me
about six times in my life I have met
somebody who in the moment prodded me
provoked me and encouraged me and
something came out at the other side so
my friend Lisa ganske who helped invent
the world wide web when she and I met I
was busy building my email company she
was busy running the first web crawler
search engine kind of thing and just
being in the room with her caused me to
invent a whole bunch of things click
through ads stuff that is still around
because she understood what I needed to
keep going and kept in but that's not
gonna work and then I would need to top
that these are priceless things when
they happen to me they don't happen very
often what happened with the Alton ba is
I saw the Skillshare courses working and
saw the udemy courses working but I also
knew that the typical online course has
a 96% dropout rate and I knew that a
bunch of money could be made taking
money from people by making promises and
then having them drop out I had no
interest in that whatsoever so I said to
myself what would of course it had a 2%
dropout rate be like and then I went to
the desert and I just sat there with my
problem until I figured it out and
that's hard work it's much harder work
than when you find a magical person to
dance with but I came back and I said
here are the 13 projects and we're gonna
use slack and zoom and WordPress and
this and this and this and we're gonna
go I'm gonna look younger patch until it
works and let's go build that so one of
the things that I find propels people
through times like that where they're
off in the desert and they're trying to
figure this out and it's
hard as hell and it might even be scary
and I don't know if this is gonna work
kicks in and the thing that I always
tell people you need is to have
something that gives you more energy
than it takes and we'll shorthand that
and say it's passion what do you think
about passion a calling
yeah what's uh what's your take on that
so another controversial thing for me a
lot of people hide behind the expression
if I could just find something I love
then I could do great work and I think
it's way more powerful to be able to say
I choose to love the thing I do and that
idea that we can become passionate about
our work as opposed to expecting our
work to give us passion makes us way
more flexible gives us way more leverage
allows us to move forward and it gets
back to the narrative the self-talk we
have about this work we get to do as
opposed to having to treat it as
something we have to do
I am absolutely ablaze with agreement on
I really think that it's a process to
create a passion and it drives me nuts
because even I slip into saying find
your passion and Mike you don't find it
you create it right so what advice do
you have for people that are like okay
get it intellectually but I don't like
what does a process look like like how
do I decide to love something I don't
know who said at first but it turns out
that if you smile you're gonna be in a
better mood not the other way around
right that when you watch people
trudging through the mall spending
hundreds of dollars just before
Christmas there is miserable right what
a privilege to spend hundreds of dollars
if you don't want to do it there's some
really worthy causes that you ought to
send it to this choice of saying I made
the decision to be here today I made the
decision to do this for live if you
really want to make money go work for
Goldman Sachs it's the single best way
to get really rich if that's not what
you're doing then you've already decided
you're not doing it for the money
so why are you doing it and coming back
to that you know and Tony Robbins
Master they said reorganizing our brain
chemistry around the signals that come
to us that deciding to smile and pause
every time we see our kid right even if
we're in the middle of seven other
things that you can burn that in and it
will persist for four years and so this
isn't my area of expertise I've done it
for myself I don't teach people how to
do this but what I can tell you is it's
mostly triggered by fear our fear of
death our fear of being alone our fear
of failure so we invent all these
narratives to protect ourselves from the
thing that's going to happen to us one
day anyway and so there's an enormous
amount to be said for accepting the fact
that you're going to die accepting the
fact that it's all gonna go away what
are you gonna do in the meantime right
the chung-yong Trumper rinpoche said
we're falling and we're falling and were
falling but the good news is there's
nothing to hold on to in doing the
research there was one thing more than
and I actually thought about starting
the interview here but I have no idea
where it was gonna go okay so I thought
I really wanted to get to the line
closer to the Sun you cried when Leonard
Nimoy died that caught my attention in a
way that like I can't explain why I'm
getting choked up right now I never met
him I think there are a few reasons one
is the human he was and the work that he
did behind the scenes so small example
when they when the TV show went off the
air was failure and they decided to make
the Saturday morning cartoon and the
deal was they would bring back three of
the characters but then they'd have
anonymous people do all the other voices
and Nimoy Spock said if you don't bring
back Sulu and check off and the rest and
over I'm not doing it no upside for him
doing that and it enabled those humans
to make a living
going forward so that we got all the
other stuff that came from it in terms
of his work as a professional I blogged
about
the day on the set he actually became
Spock because you know you know all that
stuff every time the ship gets into
trouble and the ship gets into trouble
and he's gonna do what everybody else
does and the director says be the
different one and so while everyone else
was throwing themselves across the deck
he says fascinating and just raises one
eyebrows and that is what genius looks
like that's when an artist does an
artist says oh right now someone tossed
me the ball what am I going to do with
the ball and how can I do it for other
people not to get more screen time right
so that's part of it and then the other
part of it is I think that what Gene
Roddenberry created in the Spock
character is this combination of Buddism
rationality and the best of what an
emotional human is and when I think
about the culture that I want to be part
of I'd rather have more Spock's than
Kirk's right Kirk's just want to blow
[__] up
but Spock was living weaving together
something and I know he's a fictional
character but it felt to me like part of
the family was leaving us wow it's
really incredible before I asked my last
question where can these guys find you
online beyond just typing Seth into
Google which is I had to test it by the
way I didn't go I was like there's no
way and it works my mom was gonna name
me Scott and if that had happened none
of this would have worked but my
grandfather said that's the brand of
toilet paper don't do that that didn't
have a nice big grandpa I belong every
day at my blog which is currently at
Seth Godin duct iPad calm but again you
find am i typing Seth the Alton Bay's at
alt mba.com
and now I'm working with my team to
reinvigorate and expand the marketing
seminar that we also run but no new
books because people want to go deeper
and so that's what we're focusing on
what about
Kimbo I listened to your first episode
it's good you had a very busy morning
because it went live today akimbo is a
new podcast for me you can find it at a
Kimbo dot link it's not like other
podcasts there's no guests I don't read
the ads there's QA at the end it's an
experiment it might not work we'll see
I'm gonna tell you this right now it is
going to crush episode one which will
almost certainly be your worst is
already fantastic because I can feel you
blogging in podcast and so it's like
those same idiosyncratic incredibly like
cut through the noise insights but
wonderfully longer than the blog post
which of course is the only crushing
problem with your blogpost is there's
there you just want them to last forever
so that's so kind of you think you dude
I'm telling you you've impacted my life
so first of all let's just start with
that I don't know if you know but I have
a book list of the most important books
any human being should read in order and
linchpin is on there it's just it think
it was transformative for me I think it
would be transformative for many others
obviously seeing you adapt the way that
you do is so incredible and that you
haven't gotten stuck in books which
would be so easy for you because you've
been so successful and to see you shift
over into podcast it's it's gonna be
incredible I'll just say that right now
and then my final question what is the
impact that you want to have on the
world I've thought about this a little
bit and it's a little meta but here we
go I would like to be known by what the
people who learn from me taught other
people because I'm not trying to teach
for my own sake I'm trying to teach so
that other people can help the culture
around them level up because it's all we
got
so thank you
[Applause]
guys this the world that he has created
is absolutely astonishing and really
think about the choices that we all make
in our life I believe this to the core
of my being that's what defines us it
isn't our intentions it isn't what we
end up having at the end of the day in
terms of financial success it is
entirely the choices that we make that
show what our value system is show what
we prioritize and when he says he views
himself as a teacher he holds true to
that in everything that he does I
literally just got the chills
from the books that he's written to the
the nearly infinite wealth of
information in his blog to his podcast
everything the generosity of spirit
incredible and we didn't even talk about
what he's like on stage which go do
yourself a favor right now it is
absolutely incredibly as like 150 slides
in his presentation he never looks at
the clicker which I was very impressed
by so they just seamlessly magically
change as he's going through it is
absolutely incredible it's some of the
best stage presentation I've ever seen
in my life absolutely incredible it's
all available online but the thing I
want you guys to see doesn't believe
that we're born with anything it's all
created writer's block is total BS you
don't have a passion you create a
passion this is all coming from somebody
who has built one of the most
magnificent examples of a life designed
from the ground up to develop to deliver
fulfillment fulfillment at the end of
the day is the only thing that matters
and so to see him craft success and
fulfillment and equal measure is
breathtaking dive in check it out and
I'm begging you let it change you
forever and for the better all right if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care everybody thank you
so much for watching and being a part of
this community if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe you're gonna get
weekly videos on building a growth
mindset cultivating grit and unlocking
your full potential